Unit testing, renaming functions, adding docs (#124)
aim-rsf/browseMetadata: README.md

Author: Will return to 1-3 later, thanks!
Can you expand on (4) - which plots are you referring to?

Author: (2) Good point - they changed the link. I have updated it now. ✅

Author: To address both points (1) and (3) how is this for a change? I have simplified it, and also taken your order as a suggestion 

> This R package helps a researcher interact with the publicly available metadata available from the [Health Data Research Gateway](https://web.www.healthdatagateway.org/search?search=&datasetSort=latest&tab=Datasets) and the connected [Metadata Catalogue](https://maurosandbox.com/hdruk/#/home). This R package is a planning tool, designed to be used alongside other tools and sources of information about health datasets for research.  Read more about health metadata [here](https://aim-rsf.github.io/browseMetadata/articles/browseMetadata.html).

Author: (4) This commit should have fixed it now https://github.com/aim-rsf/browseMetadata/commit/245210f44d8e043f297e35cd3ecf0897bc72239e ✅

Author: (1) and (3) addressed: https://github.com/aim-rsf/browseMetadata/commit/568f7df69dd7abb9bcb9f6a81765d64fd43cc945

devtools::install_github("aim-rsf/browseMetadata")
```

Load the library:

``` r
library(browseMetadata)
```

Set your working directory to be an empty folder you just created:

```r         
setwd("/Users/your-username/test-browseMetadata")
```

### Demo (using the `R Studio` IDE)

There are 4 main functions you can interact with. In order to read their documentation:

```r         
?browseMetadata
?mapMetadata
?mapMetadata_compare_outputs
?mapMetadata_convert_outputs
```

#### `browseMetadata.R`

This function is easy to run and does not require any user interaction. For now, use the demo json file provided in [inst/inputs](inst/inputs).[^2] 

The json file should contain information about the data asset (dataset), data class (table) and data element (variable)[^3].

``` r
demo_json_file <- system.file("inputs/national_community_child_health_database_(ncchd)_20240405T130125.json", package = "browseMetadata")

> browseMetadata(json_file = demo_json_file)

Author: ```suggestion
browseMetadata(json_file = demo_json_file, output_dir = NULL)
```

How's this? We could then add a sentence "By default, the output directory is your current working directory. Change to a different location if you want your files save elsewhere."

``` 

Change the argument `output_dir` if you want to save your files somewhere other than your current working directory (the default):

``` r
browseMetadata(json_file = demo_json_file,output_dir = 'path/your-directory')
``` 

After running this code successfully you should see:

```
ℹ Three outputs have been saved to your output directory.
ℹ Open the two html files in your browser for full screen viewing.
```

See [here](https://github.com/aim-rsf/browseMetadata/blob/big-refactor/inst/outputs/) for example outputs. The BROWSE_table html summarises the dataset and each table in the dataset; this will be a useful reference to have open when you run the `mapMetadata.R` function below. The BROWSE_bar html, pasted below for convenience, is a simple bar plot summarising the dataset. The BROWSE_bar csv file contains the data used to make this bar plot. 

![bar plot](/inst/outputs/BROWSE_bar_NationalCommunityChildHealthDatabase_(NCCHD)_V16.0.0.png)

> We can see there are 13 tables in the dataset. The height of the bar indicates the number of variables in that table - the ones with lots of variables (e.g. 9) will take you longer to process when running `mapMetadata.R`. Some tables (e.g. 7) have a lot of empty descriptions. An empty description means that this variable will only have a label and a data type. What about lookup tables?[^4]. The (numbers) next to table names correspond to the order in which they are shown to you in the `mapMetadata.R` function. 

Author: ```suggestion
We can see there are 13 tables in the dataset. The height of the bar indicates the number of variables in that table - the ones with lots of variables (e.g. CHILD_TRUST) will take you longer to process when running `mapMetadata.R`. Some tables (e.g. CHE_HEALTHYCHILDWALESPROGRAMME) have a lot of empty descriptions. An empty description means that this variable will only have a label and a data type. What about lookup tables?[^4]. The (numbers) next to table names correspond to the order in which they are shown to you in the `mapMetadata.R` function. 
```

Actually removed the numbers all together as they do not mean anything for this point
Thanks for pointing out the potential confusion!

 Reference the Plots tab throughout the demo run (see below). You will be asked to label data elements with one (or more) of these numbers [0-7]. Here we have very simple domains [4-7] for the demo run. For a research study, your domains are likely to be much more specific e.g. 'Prenatal, antenatal, neonatal and birth' or 'Health behaviours and diet'. The 4 default domains are always included [0-3], appended on to any domain list given.

<img src="inst/outputs/plots_tab_demo_domains.png" alt="plots" width="200"/>

```         
ℹ Running mapMetadata in demo mode using package data files
ℹ Using the default look-up table in data/look-up.rda
 
Enter your initials: RS
```

Respond with your initials after the prompt and press enter. It will then print the name of the dataset and where it was retrieved from:

```         
── Dataset Name ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
National Community Child Health Database (NCCHD)
── Dataset File Exported By ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Rachael Stickland at 2024-04-05T13:01:23.109Z

> ℹ Reference outputs from browseMetadata for information about the dataset

Author: The intended workflow is this:
- Run browseMetadata 
- Run mapMetadata on the same json file (the png table and barplot outputs from browseMetadata can be referenced during this)

So the researcher should not typically look in `inst` directly actually - that just contains example outputs for them to reference. They should reference their outputs from browseMetadata. Are there changes we can make to the README to make that clearer?

> ℹ Reference outputs from browseMetadata for information about the dataset

Author: I made this commit which might help a little - https://github.com/aim-rsf/browseMetadata/commit/87c2138c03f71bb0003119226021525e1e3f2d46

PLOT_NationalCommunityChildHealthDatabase(NCCHD)_CHILD_2024-04-05-14-37-36.png
```

The OUTPUT csv contains the categorisations you made. The LOG csv contains information about the session as a whole, including various metadata. These two csv files contain the same timestamp column. If you do not like the formatting of the OUTPUT csv, see the function [R/mapMetadata_convert_outputs.R](R/mapMetadata_convert_outputs.R) for an alternative. 

The PLOT png file saves a simple plot displaying the count of domain codes for that table.

### Tips and potential next steps

> - First thing to do next is to try `browseMetadata` and `mapMetdata` with your own inputs, without the demo mode! For detailed information on each input argument, reference the manual by typing `?mapMetadata`.

Author: The main reasons not to run in demo mode:
- input your json file of choice (for example, the demo mode only processed on example dataset, NCCHD) 
- process more than 20 data elements (variables) at once
- consider using their own lookup table if they have exiting info on mapping 
Does that make sense? If yes, we can try to expand the text

> - First thing to do next is to try `browseMetadata` and `mapMetdata` with your own inputs, without the demo mode! For detailed information on each input argument, reference the manual by typing `?mapMetadata`.

Author: ```suggestion
- First thing to do next is to try `browseMetadata` and `mapMetdata` with your own inputs, without the demo mode! This would allow you to: input a metadata json file of your choice, process more than 20 data elements at once and use your own look-up table. For detailed information on each input argument, remember to reference the manual by typing `?mapMetadata`.
```

> - First thing to do next is to try `browseMetadata` and `mapMetdata` with your own inputs, without the demo mode! For detailed information on each input argument, reference the manual by typing `?mapMetadata`.

Author: ```suggestion
- First thing to do next is to try `mapMetdata` without the demo mode! You can still use the example demo files, but this will allow you to process more than 20 data elements:
`demo_json_file <- system.file("inputs/national_community_child_health_database_(ncchd)_20240405T130125.json", package = "browseMetadata")`
`demo_domains_file <- system.file("inputs/domain_list_demo.csv",package = "browseMetadata")`
`browseMetadata(json_file = demo_domains_file, domain_file = = demo_domains_file,)`
- Next thing to try is to change these json_file and domain_file inputs! If you change the json_file, remember to run `browseMetdata` before running `mapMetdata` with this new file. There are also other options for this function, type `?mapMetdata` to find out more. 
```

> - First thing to do next is to try `browseMetadata` and `mapMetdata` with your own inputs, without the demo mode! For detailed information on each input argument, reference the manual by typing `?mapMetadata`.

Author: @Rainiefantasy how's this? https://github.com/aim-rsf/browseMetadata/commit/cfb636b561352a76252b92e9f5f8bf850782b8bf
